NEP: update backwards compatibility and deprecation policy NEP (#18097)
numpy/numpy: doc/neps/nep-0023-backwards-compatibility.rst

is considered.

Motivation and Scope
--------------------

NumPy has a very large user base.  Those users rely on NumPy being stable
and the code they write that uses NumPy functionality to keep working.
NumPy is also actively maintained and improved -- and sometimes improvements

> require, or are made much easier by, breaking backwards compatibility.

Reviewer: Maybe "require or made easier by breaking".

likely incorrect.

Benefits include improved functionality, usability and performance, as well as
lower maintenance cost and improved future extensibility.

Fixes for clear bugs are exempt from this backwards compatibility policy.
However in case of serious impact on users (e.g. a downstream library doesn't
build anymore or would start giving incorrect results), even bug fixes may have
to be delayed for one or more releases.

Strategies related to deprecations
----------------------------------

Getting hard data on the impact of a deprecation of often difficult. Strategies
that can be used to assess such impact include:

- Use a code search engine ([1]_) or static ([2]_) or dynamic ([3]_) code
  analysis tools to determine where and how the functionality is used.
- Testing prominent downstream libraries against a development build of NumPy
  containing the proposed change to get real-world data on its impact.
- Making a change in master and reverting it, if needed, before a release. We
  do encourage other packages to test against NumPy's master branch, so this
  often turns up issues quickly.

If the impact is unclear or significant, it is often good to consider

> alternatives to deprecations. For example discouraging use in documentation

Reviewer: "For example, "

only, or moving the documentation for the functionality to a less prominent
place or even removing it completely. Commenting on open issues related to it
that they are low-prio or labeling them as "wontfix" will also be a signal to

> users, and reduce the maintenance effort needing to be spent.

Author: Okay, adding "Impact assessment" and "Alternatives to deprecations" sub-sections.

> Maybe the "strategies related to deprecation" itself should be one heading level lower? 

also done

> And the "General Principles" section should actually be clearly about decisions (the "Implementation ...." are also "General Principles").

I think this bit is fine as is. The principles 1-4 are far more general than concrete items about how to go about a deprecation.

> users, and reduce the maintenance effort needing to be spent.

Reviewer: "Commenting ￼that they are low priority or labeling them as "wontfix" on open issues..."

Implementing deprecations and removals
--------------------------------------

Deprecation warnings are necessary in all cases where functionality
will eventually be removed.  If there is no intent to remove functionality,
then it should not be deprecated either. A "please don't use this" in the
documentation or other type of warning should be used instead.

Deprecations:

- shall include the version number of the release in which the functionality
  was deprecated.
- shall include information on alternatives to the deprecated functionality, or a

>   reason for the deprecation if no clear alternative is available.

Author: done

- shall use ``VisibleDeprecationWarning`` rather than ``DeprecationWarning``
  for cases of relevance to end users. For cases only relevant to
  downstream libraries, a regular ``DeprecationWarning`` is fine.

>   *Rationale: regular deprecation warnings are invisible by default; library

Reviewer 2: Is this actually true any more? I think the default visibility changed in 3.8, although possibly not enough.

Author: Still true. I think you're referring to [Python Development Mode](https://docs.python.org/3/library/devmode.html#devmode), which makes a number of warnings visible but is not enabled by default.

Reviewer 2: My thinking was that if "end users" have a workflow of running `python myscript.py`, then `DeprecationWarning`s are visible to them automatically.

Author: Ah, that's https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0565/ - never even noticed that.

The Python Development Mode docs are then incorrect/incomplete about their discussion of DeprecationWarning.

Author: updated this with @seberg's suggestion

  authors should be aware how deprecations work and test for them, but we can't
  expect this from all users.*
- shall be listed in the release notes of the release where the deprecation is
  first present.
- shall set a ``stacklevel``, so the warning appears to come from the correct
  place.
- shall be mentioned in the documentation for the functionality. A
  ``.. deprecated::`` directive can be used for this.

> 

Reviewer: Also: Deprecations should not be introduced in micro (bug fix) version releases

Examples of good deprecation warnings:

.. code-block:: python

    warnings.warn('np.asscalar(a) is deprecated since NumPy 1.16.0, use '
                  'a.item() instead', DeprecationWarning, stacklevel=3)

    warnings.warn("Importing from numpy.testing.utils is deprecated "
                  "since 1.15.0, import from numpy.testing instead.",
                  DeprecationWarning, stacklevel=2)

    # A change in NumPy 1.14.0 for Python 3 loadtxt/genfromtext, slightly

>     # tweaked in this NEP (original didn't have version number).

Reviewer: This doesn't quite reflect current practice. 

_Python_
 Note comment and stacklevel.
```
    # NumPy 1.15.0, 2017-12-10
    warnings.warn(
        "np.loads is deprecated, use pickle.loads instead",
        DeprecationWarning, stacklevel=2)
    return pickle.loads(*args, **kwargs)
```
_C_
Note comment.
```
        /* DEPRECATED 2020-05-13, NumPy 1.20 */
        if (PyErr_WarnFormat(PyExc_DeprecationWarning, 1,
                matrix_deprecation_msg, ufunc->name, "first") < 0) {
            return NULL;
        }
```

This is more howto than policy, maybe it should go elsewhere.

Author: I don't think I agree with these changed examples. What is the user supposed to do, read the source code or grep release notes to find the version it was introduced?

Reviewer: Grep the source code is what I do, it helps if the information has a standard form recognized by a regex. I don't disagree that a NumPy version should be included in the message as well.

Author: Ah, you're just commenting on the comment. Okay, I'll take that over, the comment here is not part of the example, it's indicating that the example warning was changed from how it looks in the code base.

Author: > This is more howto than policy, maybe it should go elsewhere.

Probably useful to keep, it doesn't take up much space and examples are usually helpful.

        """
        Parameters
        ----------
        axis : int, optional
            Axis along which to sort. If None, the default, the flattened array
            is used.

            ..  versionchanged:: 1.13.0
                Previously, the default was documented to be -1, but that was
                in error. At some future date, the default will change to -1, as
                originally intended.
                Until then, the axis should be given explicitly when
                ``arr.ndim > 1``, to avoid a FutureWarning.
        """
        ...
        warnings.warn(
            "In the future the default for argsort will be axis=-1, not the "
            "current None, to match its documentation and np.argsort. "
            "Explicitly pass -1 or None to silence this warning.",
            MaskedArrayFutureWarning, stacklevel=3)

Decision making
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In concrete cases where this policy needs to be applied, decisions are made according
to the `NumPy governance model
<https://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy/dev/governance/index.html>`_.

All deprecations must be proposed on the mailing list, in order to give everyone

> with an interest in NumPy development to be able to comment. Removal of

Reviewer: "to be able" -> "opportunity" or "a chance"

is considered.

Motivation and Scope
--------------------

NumPy has a very large user base.  Those users rely on NumPy being stable

> and the code they write that uses NumPy functionality to keep working.

Author: Good point. Added this a bit lower - it is important, but secondary to decision making about code changes I think.

> and the code they write that uses NumPy functionality to keep working.

Author: Added: 
In addition, this NEP can serve as documentation for users about how the NumPy
project treats backwards compatibility, and the speed at which they can expect
changes to be made."

NumPy is also actively maintained and improved -- and sometimes improvements
require or are made easier by breaking backwards compatibility.
Finally, there are trade-offs in stability for existing users vs. avoiding
errors or having a better user experience for new users.  These competing
needs often give rise to long debates and to delays in accepting or rejecting
contributions.  This NEP tries to address that by providing a policy as well
as examples and rationales for when it is or isn't a good idea to break
backwards compatibility.

In scope for this NEP are:

- Principles of NumPy's approach to backwards compatibility.
- How to deprecate functionality, and when to remove already deprecated
  functionality.
- Decision making process for deprecations and removals.

Out of scope are:

- Making concrete decisions about deprecations of particular functionality.

> - NumPy's versioning scheme.

Reviewer 3: I don't think there is a need for the out-of-scope list.

Author: Making too many concrete decisions was a main complaint about the first draft, so I'd like to keep it. Having an out of scope is almost always a good idea.

General principles
------------------

When considering proposed changes that are backwards incompatible, the
main principles the NumPy developers use when making a decision are:

1. Changes need to benefit users more than they harm them.
2. NumPy is widely used so breaking changes should by default be assumed to be
   fairly harmful.

> 3. Decisions should be based on data and actual effects on users and downstream
>    packages rather than, e.g., appealing to the docs or for stylistic reasons.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Decisions should be based on how they affect users and downstream packages.
   This should be based on usage data where possible. It does not matter whether
   this use contradicts the documentation or best practices.
```
I agree with nudging to using data, but I thought this might clearer (and I did not understand "stylistic reasons").

Reviewer 4: I think I see what stylistic reasons could be, but don't quite follow "appealing to the docs".

Author: > but don't quite follow "appealing to the docs".

"the docs say X, so I can change the code to match"

4. Silently getting a wrong answer is much worse than getting a loud error.

When assessing the costs of proposed changes, keep in mind that most users do
not read the mailing list, do not look at deprecation warnings, and sometimes
wait more than one or two years before upgrading from their old version. And
that NumPy has millions of users, so "no one will do or use this" is very
likely incorrect.

> Benefits include improved functionality, usability and performance, as well as

Reviewer 4: Benefits of... ?

Author: of proposed changes - updated

lower maintenance cost and improved future extensibility.

Fixes for clear bugs are exempt from this backwards compatibility policy.
However in case of serious impact on users (e.g. a downstream library doesn't
build anymore or would start giving incorrect results), even bug fixes may have
to be delayed for one or more releases.

Strategies related to deprecations
----------------------------------

Getting hard data on the impact of a deprecation of often difficult. Strategies
that can be used to assess such impact include:

- Use a code search engine ([1]_) or static ([2]_) or dynamic ([3]_) code
  analysis tools to determine where and how the functionality is used.
- Testing prominent downstream libraries against a development build of NumPy
  containing the proposed change to get real-world data on its impact.

> - Making a change in master and reverting it, if needed, before a release. We

Reviewer 4: I think we ask packages to test against pre-releases (if testing against `master` is too burdensome).  It's late in the cycle, but good enough to warn us of impending doom.

Author: added

  do encourage other packages to test against NumPy's master branch, so this
  often turns up issues quickly.

If the impact is unclear or significant, it is often good to consider
alternatives to deprecations. For example, discouraging use in documentation
only, or moving the documentation for the functionality to a less prominent
place or even removing it completely. Commenting on open issues related to it
that they are low-prio or labeling them as "wontfix" will also be a signal to
users, and reduce the maintenance effort needing to be spent.

Implementing deprecations and removals
--------------------------------------

Deprecation warnings are necessary in all cases where functionality
will eventually be removed.  If there is no intent to remove functionality,
then it should not be deprecated either. A "please don't use this" in the

> documentation or other type of warning should be used instead.

Reviewer 3: When it has been decided that functionality should be removed this functionality this is a "Deprecation" and goes through the following deprecation process...

If you decide to introduce an "alternatives" section, you could move the "please don't use this" part there.

(Just thought it may be nice to try and connect it a bit with the previous section.)

Reviewer 4: It does seem a bit odd to leave functionality in place that won't be used.  This increases maintenance burden for no good reason.  I think this is the case for some of our "we would love to remove this but don't think we can get away with it" functions.

Author: I'll change to "please don't use this for new code". We have a lot of functionality like that. I don't think it's odd, more powerful or intuitive APIs can get added, that shouldn't mean you just rip out the old stuff.

Author: Also adding "and the documentation can be organized such that the preferred alternative is more prominently shown.". That should cover it I think.

Deprecations:

- shall include the version number of the release in which the functionality

>   was deprecated.

Reviewer 4: @rossbar Is this something numpydoc can check for?

>   was deprecated.

Reviewer 4: Maybe we should give an explicit example of how that looks like in a docstring.

>   was deprecated.

Reviewer 4: (To be clear, I was thinking of `.. deprecated::`).

>   was deprecated.

Author: This is about the warning itself. `.. deprecated::` is already mentioned further down. Chuck was thinking this had too many examples already. I think it strikes a decent balance, so would like to leave it as is.

- shall include information on alternatives to the deprecated functionality, or a
  reason for the deprecation if no clear alternative is available.
- shall use ``VisibleDeprecationWarning`` rather than ``DeprecationWarning``
  for cases of relevance to end users. For cases only relevant to
  downstream libraries, a regular ``DeprecationWarning`` is fine.
  *Rationale: regular deprecation warnings are invisible by default; library
  authors should be aware how deprecations work and test for them, but we can't
  expect this from all users.*

> - shall be listed in the release notes of the release where the deprecation is

Reviewer 4: Maybe just keep listing these in every release's notes until they are finally removed?

Author: I'd prefer not to, that would just be confusing and we've never done that.

Reviewer 4: An "upcoming depreciations" section isn't so crazy, is it? But agreed that this is not the place to discuss such a suggestion.

Author: I think you mean "upcoming backwards incompatible changes"? It's not crazy, but it is extra work and duplicate content. And there's deprecations that may not expire for a long time, I'd rather people read the release notes when they come out and otherwise just pay attention to deprecation warnings in their code.

One other concern: the release notes are already too long, I have to choose what to cut to make it fit in the Tidelift interface (which IIRC is max 1500 words).

Reviewer 3: It would be interesting if any project is in the habit of keeping such a list? I agree that the release notes themselves are probably not a good spot (but they could include a link). It also doesn't fit too well, with the fragment process, unless we special case deprecations.

  first present.
- shall not be introduced in micro (or bug fix) releases.

> - shall set a ``stacklevel``, so the warning appears to come from the correct

Reviewer 4: Should we provide guidance on how this should be done?

Author: there's an example further down already

    # NumPy 1.14.0, 2017-07-14
    warnings.warn(
        "Reading unicode strings without specifying the encoding "
        "argument is deprecated since NumPy 1.14.0. Set the encoding, "
        "use None for the system default.",
        np.VisibleDeprecationWarning, stacklevel=2)

.. code-block:: C

        /* DEPRECATED 2020-05-13, NumPy 1.20 */
        if (PyErr_WarnFormat(PyExc_DeprecationWarning, 1,
                matrix_deprecation_msg, ufunc->name, "first") < 0) {
            return NULL;
        }

Removal of deprecated functionality:

- shall be done after at least 2 releases (assuming the current 6-monthly
  release cycle; if that changes, there shall be at least 1 year between
  deprecation and removal).
- shall be listed in the release notes of the release where the removal happened.
- can be done in any minor (but not bugfix) release.

For backwards incompatible changes that aren't "deprecate and remove" but for
which code will start behaving differently, a ``FutureWarning`` should be
used. Release notes, mentioning version number and using ``stacklevel`` should
be done in the same way as for deprecation warnings. A ``.. versionchanged::``

> directive can be used in the documentation to indicate when the behavior

Author: I meant after the change was made. Updated the text.

changed:

.. code-block:: python

    def argsort(self, axis=np._NoValue, ...):
        """
        Parameters
        ----------
        axis : int, optional
            Axis along which to sort. If None, the default, the flattened array
            is used.

            ..  versionchanged:: 1.13.0
                Previously, the default was documented to be -1, but that was
                in error. At some future date, the default will change to -1, as
                originally intended.
                Until then, the axis should be given explicitly when
                ``arr.ndim > 1``, to avoid a FutureWarning.
        """
        ...
        warnings.warn(
            "In the future the default for argsort will be axis=-1, not the "
            "current None, to match its documentation and np.argsort. "
            "Explicitly pass -1 or None to silence this warning.",
            MaskedArrayFutureWarning, stacklevel=3)

Decision making

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer 3: shouldn't this be one heading level higher (same with the more strict policy below)?  Since it more importantly applies to the decision whether a change should be made at all.

Author: good point, done

In concrete cases where this policy needs to be applied, decisions are made according
to the `NumPy governance model
<https://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy/dev/governance/index.html>`_.

All deprecations must be proposed on the mailing list, in order to give everyone
with an interest in NumPy development a chance to comment. Removal of

> deprecated functionality does not need discussion on the mailing list.

Author: That NEP has then already hit the mailing list. This is a hard "you must get approval on the mailing list". There are many people who do not follow all GitHub traffic (for example, I have notifications for new issues and PRs turned off right now). API changes and deprecations are the two things that must be noted on the mailing list.

Functionality with more strict deprecation policies
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- ``numpy.random`` has its own backwards compatibility policy,
  see `NEP 19 <http://www.numpy.org/neps/nep-0019-rng-policy.html>`_.
- The file format for ``.npy`` and ``.npz`` files must not be changed in a backwards

>   incompatible way.

Author: Rewrote this, should be clearer now.

Example cases
-------------

We now discuss a few concrete examples from NumPy's history to illustrate
typical issues and trade-offs.

**Changing the behavior of a function**

> 

Author: I don't think so. It was a single planned behaviour change, executed in multiple steps.

is considered.

Motivation and Scope
--------------------

NumPy has a very large user base.  Those users rely on NumPy being stable
and the code they write that uses NumPy functionality to keep working.
NumPy is also actively maintained and improved -- and sometimes improvements

> require or are made easier by breaking backwards compatibility.

Reviewer: I'd keep the commas.

Finally, there are trade-offs in stability for existing users vs. avoiding
errors or having a better user experience for new users.  These competing
needs often give rise to long debates and to delays in accepting or rejecting

> contributions.  This NEP tries to address that by providing a policy as well

Reviewer: Maybe "give rise to long debates and delay accepting"

as examples and rationales for when it is or isn't a good idea to break
backwards compatibility.

In addition, this NEP can serve as documentation for users about how the NumPy
project treats backwards compatibility, and the speed at which they can expect
changes to be made.

In scope for this NEP are:

- Principles of NumPy's approach to backwards compatibility.
- How to deprecate functionality, and when to remove already deprecated
  functionality.
- Decision making process for deprecations and removals.
- How to ensure that users are well informed about any change.

Out of scope are:

- Making concrete decisions about deprecations of particular functionality.
- NumPy's versioning scheme.

General principles
------------------

When considering proposed changes that are backwards incompatible, the
main principles the NumPy developers use when making a decision are:

1. Changes need to benefit more than they harm users.

> 2. NumPy is widely used so breaking changes should by default be assumed to be

Reviewer: Maybe "should be assumed by default to be harmful." Also comma before "so".

   fairly harmful.
3. Decisions should be based on how they affect users and downstream packages.

>    This should be based on usage data where possible. It does not matter whether

Reviewer: Combine sentances "and should be..."

   this use contradicts the documentation or best practices.

> 4. The possibility of an incorrect result is much worse than an error or even crash.

Reviewer: Could omit "much"

When assessing the costs of proposed changes, keep in mind that most users do
not read the mailing list, do not notice deprecation warnings, and sometimes
wait more than one or two years before upgrading from their old version. And
that NumPy has millions of users, so "no one will do or use this" is very

> likely incorrect.

Reviewer: Could omit "very".

Benefits of proposed changes can include improved functionality, usability and
performance, as well as lower maintenance cost and improved future
extensibility.

Fixes for clear bugs are exempt from this backwards compatibility policy.

> However in case of serious impact on users (e.g. a downstream library doesn't

Reviewer: Comma after "However". Maybe split into two sentences

"However, in case of serious impact on users even bug fixes may have to be delayed for one or more releases. For example, if a downstream library would no longer build or would give incorrect results."

build anymore or would start giving incorrect results), even bug fixes may have
to be delayed for one or more releases.

Strategies related to deprecations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Impact assessment
`````````````````

Getting hard data on the impact of a deprecation of often difficult. Strategies
that can be used to assess such impact include:

- Use a code search engine ([1]_, [2]_) or static ([3]_) or dynamic ([4]_) code
  analysis tools to determine where and how the functionality is used.

> - Testing prominent downstream libraries against a development build of NumPy

Reviewer: "Test"

  containing the proposed change to get real-world data on its impact.

> - Making a change in master and reverting it, if needed, before a release. We

Reviewer: "Make a change in master and revert it before release if it causes problems.

>   do encourage other packages to test against NumPy's master branch (and if

Reviewer: Omit "do" and the parenthesis and make "This often turns up issues quickly."  a separate sentence.

  that's too burdensome, then at least to test pre-releases), so this often
  turns up issues quickly.

Alternatives to deprecations
````````````````````````````

If the impact is unclear or significant, it is often good to consider
alternatives to deprecations. For example, discouraging use in documentation
only, or moving the documentation for the functionality to a less prominent
place or even removing it completely. Commenting on open issues related to it
that they are low-prio or labeling them as "wontfix" will also be a signal to
users, and reduce the maintenance effort needing to be spent.

Implementing deprecations and removals
--------------------------------------

Deprecation warnings are necessary in all cases where functionality
will eventually be removed.  If there is no intent to remove functionality,

> then it should not be deprecated either. A "please don't use this for new code"

Reviewer: Omit "either".

in the documentation or other type of warning should be used instead, and the
documentation can be organized such that the preferred alternative is more
prominently shown.

Deprecations:

- shall include the version number of the release in which the functionality
  was deprecated.
- shall include information on alternatives to the deprecated functionality, or a

>   reason for the deprecation if no clear alternative is available (note that

Reviewer: Might as well make a sentence of "note that ..."

  release notes can include longer messages if needed).
- shall use ``DeprecationWarning`` by default, and ``VisibleDeprecation``
  for changes that need attention again after already having been deprecated or
  needing extra attention for some reason.
- shall be listed in the release notes of the release where the deprecation is
  first present.

> - shall not be introduced in micro (or bug fix) releases.

Reviewer: Omit "or".

  ``.. deprecated::`` directive can be used for this.

Examples of good deprecation warnings (also note standard form of the comments
above the warning, helps when grepping):

.. code-block:: python

    # NumPy 1.15.0, 2018-09-02
    warnings.warn('np.asscalar(a) is deprecated since NumPy 1.16.0, use '
                  'a.item() instead', DeprecationWarning, stacklevel=3)

    # NumPy 1.15.0, 2018-02-10
    warnings.warn("Importing from numpy.testing.utils is deprecated "
                  "since 1.15.0, import from numpy.testing instead.",
                  DeprecationWarning, stacklevel=2)

    # NumPy 1.14.0, 2017-07-14
    warnings.warn(
        "Reading unicode strings without specifying the encoding "
        "argument is deprecated since NumPy 1.14.0. Set the encoding, "
        "use None for the system default.",
        np.VisibleDeprecationWarning, stacklevel=2)

.. code-block:: C

        /* DEPRECATED 2020-05-13, NumPy 1.20 */
        if (PyErr_WarnFormat(PyExc_DeprecationWarning, 1,
                matrix_deprecation_msg, ufunc->name, "first") < 0) {
            return NULL;
        }

Removal of deprecated functionality:

> - shall be done after at least 2 releases (assuming the current 6-monthly

Reviewer: The parenthesis aren't needed.

  release cycle; if that changes, there shall be at least 1 year between
  deprecation and removal).
- shall be listed in the release notes of the release where the removal happened.

> - can be done in any minor (but not bugfix) release.

Reviewer: Use commas here instead for parenthesis.

made to indicate when the behavior changed:

.. code-block:: python

    def argsort(self, axis=np._NoValue, ...):
        """
        Parameters
        ----------
        axis : int, optional
            Axis along which to sort. If None, the default, the flattened array
            is used.

            ..  versionchanged:: 1.13.0
                Previously, the default was documented to be -1, but that was
                in error. At some future date, the default will change to -1, as
                originally intended.
                Until then, the axis should be given explicitly when
                ``arr.ndim > 1``, to avoid a FutureWarning.
        """
        ...
        warnings.warn(
            "In the future the default for argsort will be axis=-1, not the "
            "current None, to match its documentation and np.argsort. "
            "Explicitly pass -1 or None to silence this warning.",
            MaskedArrayFutureWarning, stacklevel=3)

Decision making
---------------

In concrete cases where this policy needs to be applied, decisions are made according
to the `NumPy governance model
<https://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy/dev/governance/index.html>`_.

> All deprecations must be proposed on the mailing list, in order to give everyone

Reviewer: Comma should be omitted.

with an interest in NumPy development a chance to comment. Removal of
deprecated functionality does not need discussion on the mailing list.

Functionality with more strict deprecation policies
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- ``numpy.random`` has its own backwards compatibility policy with additional
  requirements on top of the ones in this NEP, see
  `NEP 19 <http://www.numpy.org/neps/nep-0019-rng-policy.html>`_.

> - The file format for ``.npy`` and ``.npz`` files is strictly versioned

Reviewer: "of" instead of "for".

master first to allow testing, then removing it again before a release, is a
useful strategy.

Similar deprecations that also look like good examples of
cleanups/improvements:

- removing deprecated boolean indexing (in 2016, see `gh-8312 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/8312>`__)
- deprecating truth testing on empty arrays (in 2017, see `gh-9718 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/9718>`__)

**Removing the financial functions**

The financial functions (e.g. ``np.pmt``) had short non-descriptive names, were
present in the main NumPy namespace, and didn't really fit well within NumPy's
scope.  They were added in 2008 after
`a discussion <https://mail.python.org/pipermail/numpy-discussion/2008-April/032353.html>`_
on the mailing list where opinion was divided (but a majority in favor).
The financial functions didn't cause a lot of overhead, however there were
still multiple issues and PRs a year for them which cost maintainer time to
deal with.  And they cluttered up the ``numpy`` namespace.  Discussion on

> removing them happened in 2013 (gh-2880, rejected) and then again in 2019

Reviewer: "Removing them was discussed in ..." . Can omit "then again".

(:ref:`NEP32`, accepted without significant complaints).

Given that they were clearly outside of NumPy's scope, moving them to a
separate ``numpy-financial`` package (which gave users an easy uption to update
their code - just a simply `pip install numpy-financial`) and removing them
from NumPy after a deprecation period made sense.

> 

Reviewer: I'd make the parenthetical insert a separate, closing sentence.
"That also gave users an easy way to update ￼their code by doing `pip install numpy-financial`."

extra maintenance for downstream libraries and end users to an unacceptable

> level.

Author: This is the main alternative that some maintainers and downstream library authors have argued for though. No one has seriously said "let's never change anything" I think. So can't hurt to keep this.

extra maintenance for downstream libraries and end users to an unacceptable
level.

Discussion
----------

- `Mailing list discussion on the first version of this NEP in 2018 <https://mail.python.org/pipermail/numpy-discussion/2018-July/078432.html>`__

References and Footnotes
------------------------

- `Issue requesting semantic versioning <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/issues/10156>`__

- `PEP 387 - Backwards Compatibility Policy <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0387/>`__

> .. [1] https://searchcode.com/

Reviewer 3: Cool, just curious, have you used this: https://sourcegraph.com/search before? This seems nicer, but not sure how they compare.

Author: I have, but I use both rarely so don't have a strong preference between the two. 

Will add the reference.
